[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
And our special guest
is Dr. Joe Dispenza.
He is an international
lecturer, researcher,
corporate consultant,
author, educator,
and has been invited to speak
to more than 32 countries
at various continents
all around this planet.
As a lecturer and educator,
he is driven by the conviction
that each of us has the
potential for greatness
and unlimited abilities.
His latest book is called
"Becoming Supernatural."
Dr. Joe Dispenza, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
>>JOE DISPENZA: Thank
you so much, George.
>>NOORY: It's always
good to see you.
>>DISPENZA: Pleasure
to be with you.
>>NOORY: I get so many great
comments about you when
you're on "Coast to Coast"
and things that you do--
absolutely marvelous.
How did you get
started in all this?
>>DISPENZA: Well, in
1986, I got run over
by a truck in a triathlon.
>>NOORY: Ouch!
>>DISPENZA: I broke six
vertebrae in my spine.
And I had bone fragments
on my spinal cord.
And the neural arch of
one of the vertebrae
was broken like a pretzel.
So the typical
procedure for that
is Harrington rod surgery,
which is cutting off
the back parts of your
vertebrae and screwing
in these long
stainless steel rods.
>>NOORY: They slip
them right up?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
And so I had four
opinions from four
of the leading surgeons
in Southern California.
And I decided
against the surgery.
And I thought, well,
I'm not going anywhere.
I'm not doing anything.
And maybe my mind could
influence my body.
>>NOORY: Of the four
opinions, how many
told you to not do the surgery?
>>DISPENZA: All four of them
said Harrington rod surgery
is the only option.
Otherwise you'd be paralyzed.
>>NOORY: All right.
So you went against
the total grain there.
>>DISPENZA: So I went
against convention.
And in 1986, that
wasn't too common.
And it worked.
And so I just made
a deal with myself
that if I was ever
able to walk again,
I'd spend the rest of my life
studying mind over matter
and the mind-body connection.
I've been doing that since 1986.
>>NOORY: You healed yourself.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: How do you feel now?
>>DISPENZA: I never
have pain in my back.
I'm super active.
But I'm not wired
for pain, either.
And that got me on the journey
to ask bigger questions,
like, how did that happen?
And I couldn't
find the answers in
typical conventional
journals or books.
I had to start studying the new
sciences, like quantum physics
and neuroscience and
neuroplasticity and epigenetics
and psychoimmunology.
And all of those sciences point
the finger at possibility.
And it has become the
contemporary language
of mysticism.
And when you combine those
different branches of sciences,
you begin to realize
that people can
begin to make significant
changes in their life
and in their health.
We're not hardwired
to be a certain way
for the rest of our lives.
We're not doomed by our genes.
We're marvels of
adaptability and change.
And so the next question
is, how do you do it?
So I started
studying people that
had spontaneous remissions.
I thought, if it
happened to me, could it
happen to anybody else?
And so I traveled to
17 different countries
and interviewed hundreds
and hundreds of people that
were treated unconventionally.
They were staying the same
health-wise or getting worse.
And all of a sudden,
they got better.
And I just wanted to
know what the cause was
that produced that effect.
>>NOORY: What happened.
>>DISPENZA: So I
wrote my first book,
called "Evolve your Brain--
The Science of
Changing Your Mind."
And I talk about what those
principles are in terms
of how people can heal.
The mind and body
are so connected.
So then I thought
after that, well,
if I now know what those people
are doing, and it's common
and it's unanimous--
>>NOORY: And you're seeing
some denominators, aren't you?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, exactly.
So now can we reproduce it?
Because science is
about replication.
So then I started teaching it.
I started saying, OK.
These are the four principles.
Let's see if we
can demystify it,
and gave people the opportunity
to begin to practice it.
And it took a couple of years.
But then all of a
sudden, we started
seeing some really big changes
not only in people's health,
but in their lives.
And now I knew then that
when they were beginning
to have those effects,
like in a weekend workshop,
that there were some internal
changes that were going on.
So I thought, if there's a
subjective experience where
a person's having a
transcendental moment,
can we begin to
study it objectively?
So I gathered a team
of neuroscientists
and researchers.
And we began the measurements.
And in the last six years, we've
done thousands and thousands
of measurements.
We've done 8,500 brain scans,
measuring people's brains
before they come to a
four and a half day event
to see what their brain
is like when they start--
>>NOORY: And what it is later.
>>DISPENZA: --and then go
through four days of training
and see what it's
like at the end.
>>NOORY: I bet it's illuminated
at the end, isn't it?
>>DISPENZA: Well, illuminated--
we can talk about that.
But there were
significant changes
that were taking
place that showed me
it wasn't just in their mind.
It was in their brain.
And then we started
measuring people
during the
transformational process.
What's going on in their mind?
Can we see changes in real time?
And we started gathering more
information about how to do it.
And when people start to
understand what they're doing
and why they're doing
it, the how gets easier.
And I also realized what
doesn't work as well.
And so then we've done
thousands and thousands
of HRV measurements
and teaching people
how to self-regulate and begin
to create more heart coherence.
>>NOORY: So you're getting
a science out at this,
aren't you?
>>DISPENZA: Well,
science is the language--
the moment you start
talking religion
or culture or tradition, you're
going to divide an audience.
Because soon as someone hears
a word that intimidates them,
they're going to shut off.
>>NOORY: That's right.
They tune in or tune out.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
But science is just a great
way to create community.
So we've measured
immune responses.
And we've seen that people
can literally in four days
begin to strengthen their
immune system by 50%.
We've measured gene expression.
We now know that in four and
a half days that people can
signal the gene that
reduces cancer in tumors
in people's bodies, the
gene for neurogenesis,
to grow new neurons in
response to novel experiences
and learning-- not just
making new connections,
but growing new neurons--
the gene for stem
cells to become
activated to go to damaged
tissues and repair them.
>>NOORY: It really is amazing.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, all kinds
of significant changes.
And we've measured
telomere lengths.
And we've seen
that people who do
meditation for just 60 days--
74% of those people
lengthen their telomeres.
>>NOORY: 74%?
>>DISPENZA: And telomeres
are the little shoestrings
on the end of your
DNA that tells you
your true biological age.
So imagine if somebody's
telomere is lengthened by 10%.
They get 10% of their life back.
And so we're
beginning to realize
that you don't have
to be a Buddhist
monk, that you don't have to
be an academic or a scholar.
You don't have to be
a minister or a rabbi.
The common people around the
world are doing the uncommon.
And I now know that
if you give people
sound scientific information--
and they begin to learn it.
Every time you
learn something new,
you make new connections
in your brain.
That's what learning is.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Absolutely.
>>DISPENZA: And
the latest research
shows that just one hour of
concentration on one topic
doubles the number
of connections
in certain areas of your brain.
But if you don't review
that information,
you don't repeat it, you
don't think about it,
those circuits prune apart
within hours or days.
So learning is--
>>NOORY: So they fade away.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
So if learning is making
new synaptic connections,
then remembering is maintaining
and sustaining them.
So what's the relevance?
Well, if you get a community
of people together in a room,
and you deliver the
proper information,
and then you tell them to turn
to the person next to them
and explain what
they're learning,
once they start engaging
the other person
and they start thinking about
it and talking about it,
they're causing
their brain to fire
in new sequences and new
patterns and new combinations.
And whenever you make your
brain work differently,
you're changing your
mind because the mind
is the brain in action.
So if you keep reminding them of
what they're learning, in time,
they begin to install
the neurological hardware
in their brain in preparation
for the experience.
Now, if you set up the
conditions in the environment,
and you give them the
proper instruction--
>>NOORY: That's important.
>>DISPENZA: That's important.
They have to get their behaviors
to match their intentions--
just like any skill--
get their actions equal
to their thoughts,
get their mind and
body working together.
When they do, they are going
to have a new experience.
And it's going to change them.
And experience
enriches the circuits
in their brain philosophically.
And then all of a sudden, the
end product of an experience
is an emotion.
And the moment you feel more
whole, the moment you feel more
unlimited, the moment
you feel more worthy,
the moment you feel
that emotion, now
you're teaching
your body chemically
to understand what your mind
has intellectually understood.
So we say knowledge
is for the mind,
but experience is for the body.
And in that moment--
>>NOORY: They work together.
>>DISPENZA: --they're
embodying the truth.
Mind and body are
now working together.
And the end product
of that is we
begin to change our
genetic expression.
So here's the point.
If you've done it once, you
should be able to do it again.
>>NOORY: You would think.
>>DISPENZA: So as you begin
to repeat the experience over
and over again, you're
going to neurochemically
condition your mind and body
to begin to work as one.
And when you've done
something so many times
that your body now knows how
to do it as well as your mind,
now it's innate in you.
It's second nature.
It's who you are.
It's automatic.
It's effortless.
Now you're beginning to
master that philosophy.
And it's who you are.
You're being it.
Our job, then, is to
go from philosopher
to initiate to master, from
knowledge to experience
to wisdom, from mind
to body to soul,
from thinking to doing to being,
to learning it with your head,
applying it with your hands,
and knowing it by heart.
And we have all the biological
and neurological machinery
to do it.
>>NOORY: Let's go to one
of your workshops, Joe.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Stepping into the
practicum and the skill--
and it's one thing to
study rodents in a changing
environment.
It's another thing
studying people, changing
their internal states,
and being able to sustain
those internal states.
So that's the
practicum that leaves
the philosophical behind.
So you have
philosophy, a theory.
And you initiated it.
That initiation, then,
should lead to some type
of mastery or skill.
>> So what happens internally
when the energy hits the head?
There's light.
There's a very bright light.
You no longer need your vision.
But because you're human,
you're still trying to see.
It's really hard to
describe what happens.
There's a lot of light.
You can feel the currents.
You can feel the blast.
You can feel the movement.
But you can't really
put a name to it.
>> They are having an inward
experience that's greater than
their trauma, their
diagnosis, their fear.
Whatever's happening
between their ears
is more real than
anything that's happened
in their external environment.
Her sympathetic nervous
system has switched on.
And instead of switching on
like being chased by a predator,
it's taking all that
energy stored in the body,
and it's driving
it up to the brain.
And when it goes on, all
of a sudden the brain
goes into gamma.
And she's aroused from
the inner experience.
But it's not from a
predator or from a danger.
It's from the divine.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: What a great audience.
Now, what was going on there?
>>DISPENZA: Well, when we
started on this journey--
and I have a great
research team.
You saw some of them there--
we never thought that
we would be recording
what we're recording today.
And in fact, there's a formula
now that we've figured out.
And we could actually
predict the moment
a person is going to go
into a superconscious state.
So we do certain
different meditations
to begin to activate latent
centers in the brain.
So let's say a
person has a betrayal
or a trauma or a shock.
The stronger the
emotion that you
feel from some situation
in your life, the more
altered you feel inside of you.
The more altered you
feel inside of you,
the more you pay
attention to the cause.
And the brain freezes the
image and takes a snapshot.
And that's called a "memory."
So the stronger the
emotion you feel,
the more long-term
memories you create.
So now that's branded
neurologically in the brain.
And it's emotionally
conditioned in the body.
So people tend to
think neurologically
within the circuits of
those past experiences.
And then they tend
to feel emotionally
within the boundaries of
those chemical events.
And how we think
and how we feel,
George, is our state of being.
So most people are
defined as an identity
by their past memories.
So then the question is,
how do you change that?
Because the strong emotion could
actually downregulate a gene
that can begin to
signal a disease.
So then when we begin to induce
these states where a person is
going to have a
transcendental moment,
there's this very
significant change
that takes place in the brain.
And all of a sudden now, 95%
of who we are as a personality
by the time we're
35 years old is
a set of memorized behaviors,
emotional reactions,
unconscious attitudes, and
beliefs and perceptions
that function like
a computer program.
So most of the mind
is stored in the body.
So 5% of our conscious
mind is working
against 95% of what we've
memorized subconsciously.
So what's an example of that?
Well, an example is you may
not remember a phone number.
We're old enough to know this.
You pick up the phone,
you look at the receiver,
and you dial the number.
You couldn't remember
it consciously.
But your body did
it so many times
that it knew how to do it
as well as your mind, right?
So that's who we
are subconsciously.
So the trauma is stored in the
body, as well as in the brain.
So then when a person begins to
activate these latent systems,
energy begins to travel
right up the spine.
And we can actually predict
the moment is going to happen.
When scientists come
and study us, we'll say,
she's going to pop.
>>NOORY: And you
watch that happen.
>>DISPENZA: I always
say, and she's going
to pop in five minutes here.
You watch.
And all of a sudden, that
energy that's stored in the body
begins to move
right up the spine.
And it goes to a little gate
at the brain stem called
the "thalamic gate."
And that gate opens up.
And the sympathetic
nervous system switches on.
And now the body is driving
energy up into the brain.
It hits certain
areas of the brain.
And the brain goes into
what's called "gamma brainwave
patterns."
That is a superconscious state.
>>NOORY: What's
amazing, Doctor, is
you're one of the few people,
if not the only one, who
he explains how this works.
Nobody else is doing that.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
you should sit in
on some of our brain
science meetings
because there is cussing
going on and arguing.
Because you can't find
this in textbooks.
>>NOORY: No.
It's not there.
>>DISPENZA: This is
supernatural, right?
So once that energy
goes into the brain--
I'll give you an example--
the brain switches
on to such a degree
that those measurements--
you can't find
in any neuroscience research.
These people are going into
such coherence in their brain.
Now, coherence is order.
But like most normal coherence
in the brain-- picture
a room of 1,000
people and everybody
clapping at the same time.
They're applauding at a show.
That's incoherence, right?
It's noise.
>>NOORY: I love that sound,
by the way, if I'm on stage.
>>DISPENZA: Yes, of course.
Now, normal coherence--
picture the room.
And every fifth person in that
room claps at the same time.
That's kind of a brain that has
a normal amount of coherence.
But when we were measuring
this supercoherence,
picture the entire 1,000 people
clapping at the same time
to the same rhythm very quickly.
That orderliness creates a lot
of energy, too, in the room.
So the brain goes into
these ecstatic states.
That person is having a
full-on sensory experience
without their senses.
Now imagine if your senses were
heightened by 25% right now.
Everything you're seeing,
everything you're hearing,
everything you're smelling--
>>NOORY: Is heightened by 25%.
>>DISPENZA: --everything
you're tasting,
everything you're feeling.
If your senses are
heightened by 25%,
so is your awareness of
everything around you.
>>NOORY: And that's huge
>>DISPENZA: And you
can't have awareness
without consciousness.
You can't have consciousness
without energy.
So all of a sudden,
the brain switches on.
They go into these
high states of gamma.
And the amount of
energy in the brain--
I'll give you an example.
Most people, if we're
measuring their vision,
if we're measuring
their liver enzymes,
if we're measuring their
height-- if we took 1,000
people and we measured
them, you would
see this curve called a
Z curve or a bell curve.
You draw a line right
down the middle.
And you divide it
equally in threes.
That's three standard
deviations above normal,
three standard
deviations below normal.
That makes up 99.7%
of the population.
Doesn't matter what we measure.
>>NOORY: Doesn't matter.
It's just there.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
So our measurements in
energy and the brain
is 200 standard
deviations outside
of normal, 300 standard
deviations outside of normal,
400 standard deviations
outside normal.
That means you have to
draw another 197 blocks.
And that line just keeps
getting smaller and smaller.
That amount of
energy, that person--
that inward event is going
to reorganize the circuitry
in their brain because
that's what experience does.
And it's going to produce
a profound feeling.
Now, that feeling is not fear.
It's not anger.
It's not hostility.
It's not pain.
It's not sadness.
It is bliss.
So now the moment the person
feels this elevated emotion,
their heart goes
into supercoherence.
They're feeling tremendous love.
And the strong emotion is
causing them to pay attention
to the pictures in their mind.
And in an instant, it's like
their past is washed away.
So all of a sudden, we're
seeing instantaneous changes
with health.
A person's psoriasis
goes away in an instant.
A person working with
a spinal cord injury
is now walking without crutches.
People with
Parkinson's disease--
their conditions are
returning back to normal
because the level
of energy that's
running through
their nervous system
is giving them a
biological upgrade.
And now we're seeing
the same patterns.
We're seeing the
same brain scans.
We're seeing the same
changes in health.
And the side effect of it
is the person is completely
changed as an individual.
They're saying, I feel so whole.
I feel so happy.
I feel so free.
And I think that is the
natural state of being.
>>NOORY: From your
workshop, there's
a lot of experiences like this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Imagine 750
people in the room.
They're overcoming themselves.
And they start
activating this center,
their center of oneness,
their center of wholeness.
And as the heart
starts getting coherent
and it starts creating elevated
emotions, like gratitude,
people are feeling the
emotions of their future
that begin to create
holism and oneness.
If the environment
signals the gene,
and the end product of an
experience in the environment
is called an "emotion,"
when you embrace
these elevated emotions,
you are literally
selecting and instructing new
genes ahead of the environment.
And we are going to
turn on new lights
and turn off old
lights, signaling
new genes and new ways.
>> During meditation,
my heart just opened up.
I was sobbing with joy.
And I was having these
waves and waves and waves
of love and gratitude.
>> I can only
describe it as a bolt,
like a lightning bolt of
energy arrived in my heart.
And it didn't come up
through the center and down.
It just came out through my
heart and up through my head.
>> I was very conscious of the
fact that I don't expect to see
anything.
And then all of a
sudden, I don't know.
I started feeling this
weird, strange shaking
all over my body.
But it was getting stronger
and getting stronger.
>> And there are tears of
joy rolling down their face.
They are being
baptized by the divine.
And when that occurs,
they feel so whole
and so in love with life and
so in love with themselves,
it's impossible to want.
How can you want
when you feel whole?
You feel like you
have everything.
And that's the moment the magic
happens over and over again.
And there is a biological,
neurological, genetic upgrade
in that person.
And when that occurs, you will
feel so connected and so whole,
you no longer
experience separation.
Imagine your heart
is in supercoherence.
And when that heart
starts to beat in rhythm
and they're sustaining it,
all of a sudden, that field
starts to expand.
That energy starts to
become very coherent,
like dropping a pebble in water
after pebble after pebble.
And it's creating this wave.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Joe, why is it
so emotional for people?
My God.
They were breaking down, crying.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, I know.
And it probably scares
a lot of people.
But they're not in
any type of pain.
>>NOORY: No.
It looks like it's glee.
>>DISPENZA: Yes.
God, we spend so much
of our lives, George--
70% of the time, according
to the research--
living in survival,
living in stress.
And living in stress
and living in survival
is when your brain and
body are out of balance.
And when you're in
survival, you're
always anticipating the worst
thing to happen in your life.
So most people live by the
emotions of fear or anger
or hostility or
aggression or competition
or envy or jealousy.
And they don't know
how to open their heart
because in survival, it's not
a time to open your heart.
If you're being
chased by a predator,
it's not a time to learn.
It's not a time to sit still.
It's not a time to go within.
The survival gene
is switched on.
You have three choices--
you run, you hide, or you fight.
People then close
down their heart
because they don't
want to be vulnerable.
So we teach them.
We partnered with the
Heart Math Institute,
and we teach them
how to self-regulate.
We teach them how to
activate the center
and how to begin to trade
guilt or sadness or pain
for gratitude and worthiness
and a love for life
and a joy for existence.
And just like anything else,
if you start practicing
and you're knocking on the
door, once that center begins
to open up and your
heart begins to change,
it's an amazing phenomenon.
The heart begins to release
a chemical called "oxytocin."
Oxytocin--
>>NOORY: Makes you
feel good, doesn't it?
>>DISPENZA: It's
the love chemical.
Now, we've measured
oxytocin in our students.
In four days, some of them
have 200 times the amount
of oxytocin.
Now, oxytocin-- according
to the research--
once it's in the
circulatory system
rushes right into the amygdala.
The amygdala is the survival
center in the brain.
>>NOORY: That's our
reptilian brain, right?
>>DISPENZA: It's that
little almond-shaped part
of the brain that's always
scanning the environment
to determine danger.
And so there's four
different emotions
that the amygdala is wired for--
aggression and anger, fear and
anxiety, pain and suffering,
and joy and love.
So the moment
oxytocin is released
into the circulatory system,
it shuts the lights out
for anger and aggression.
It cools the circuits
off for fear and anxiety.
And it lowers the volume
to pain and suffering.
And the only emotion
the person can feel
is a true love for life.
In fact, the research shows
that when oxytocin levels are
elevated just slightly, it's
impossible to hold a grudge.
In other words,
why would you want
to trade this feeling
for anyone or anything?
You would say, I feel
so great that I don't
want to lose this feeling.
So when oxytocin is released,
it signals a chemical
called "nitric oxide."
Nitric oxide signals a chemical
called "endothelial-derived
relaxing factor."
Now, that's just a
big word that just
means it causes the arteries--
>>NOORY: To expand, right?
>>DISPENZA: --and your heart
and your brain just to open up.
So you're getting more
energy and more blood flow.
And your heart is
literally feeling full.
And with that comes an
energy or an emotion.
So you feel so grateful,
you feel so blessed,
you feel so whole that
you can't want anything.
You feel like you
have everything.
You feel blessed.
Now, I call that the
natural state of being.
So most people don't
want to take the time
to get beyond their fear.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>DISPENZA: Because
many people--
they get caught in these loops.
They have those
events in their life
that cause the strong emotions.
Let's say it's fear.
Or let's say it's failure.
>>NOORY: Or failure.
Something goes wrong.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
So if you feel like a failure--
>>NOORY: You're going to be one.
>>DISPENZA: --you're going to
think you are a failure, right?
So if you can't think
greater than how you feel,
or feelings become
the means of thinking,
then you're thinking
in the past.
So people get caught
in these loops.
They think certain thoughts.
Those thoughts makes
certain chemicals.
They feel like a failure.
The moment the brain checks
in with the body and says,
yeah, you're feeling
pretty much like a failure,
you'll generate more thoughts
equal to how you're feeling.
So the thinking and feeling
and feeling and thinking
creates a state of being.
So then when people get caught
in these loops, what happens
is they get happy being unhappy.
Because the hardest
part about change
is not making the same choice
as you did the day before.
So then the moment you say,
I'm going to give up my guilt,
that means you're going to leave
everything familiar and known
in your life.
And you're going to
step into the unknown.
And it's going to
be uncomfortable.
It's going to be unfamiliar.
There's going to be
some uncertainty.
You're not going to
be able to predict
the next moment because
you're no longer in the known.
You're in the unknown.
So people, they feel
that uncomfortableness.
They can't predict or know
what's going to happen.
They're in this void.
And the body, which has been
conditioned to be the mind,
says, you've been feeling this
way for the last 25 years.
And so the body starts sending
signals back to the brain
to influence our thoughts.
Well, if we respond to those
thoughts as if they're true,
those same thoughts lead
to the same choices.
The same choices lead
to the same behaviors.
The same behaviors create
the same experiences.
And the same experiences
produce that same feeling
or an emotion.
And a person says,
this feels right.
No, no, no.
That feels familiar.
Going from the old
self to the new self
is a neurological, biological,
chemical, hormonal death
of the old self.
And most people don't know how
to change their internal states
without relying on
something outside of them.
They'd rather take the
pill, the drug, the drink.
They'd rather go shopping,
gambling, whatever.
They'd rather distract
them from the true essence
of how to change because
most people don't understand
that they have the
ability to change.
So when people start
to connect, when
that heart starts to
become more coherent
and it starts to
beat more orderly,
the energy is moving
into their body.
And they feel lifted.
And if it opens up all the way--
we've seen this
thousands of times--
the heart will all of
a sudden be filled.
And that energy will
continue right to the brain.
And then they'll be in ecstasy.
>>NOORY: Are these permanent
changes for people?
>>DISPENZA: Well, we've seen
so many permanent changes
when this particular
experience happens.
We've seen people that were
blind from birth see again.
We've had plenty of people that
have lost their hearing get
their hearing back.
We've seen tumors
disappear in one week.
We've seen people with crutches
come with all kinds of ataxias
and spinal cord
injuries leave an event
without any assistance.
So we're seeing all
kinds of crazy things.
And it's like a
biological upgrade.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
>>DISPENZA: It's huge.
So I have to tell
you that I'm probably
more shocked than
anybody, number one.
>>NOORY: You didn't expect
it to work this way?
>>DISPENZA: I
didn't expect that I
would see this in my lifetime.
And it's like a
four-minute mile.
Once the four-minute
mile was broken,
George, everybody
broke it after.
It was a change
in consciousness.
So we're seeing we've
pierced this veil.
And people are no longer saying,
it's impossible for me to heal.
In fact, if we get
somebody on the stage
like you saw, and they tell
their story of how they've
overcome stage four cancer, and
they don't look like a movie
star, and they don't look
young and buffed and dressed
perfectly, look like
a normal person--
>>NOORY: And it's the real deal.
>>DISPENZA: It's the real deal.
And you're listening
that it wasn't pretty,
that they lost a lot of things.
They lost their job.
They went bankrupt.
And they were at the
bottom of the barrel.
And they turned that
battleship around.
You're going to have
to scratch your head.
And we put up the brain scans.
And we put up all
the measurements
to show that it's possible.
You're going to have to scratch
your head and think, well,
a fat person can do it.
So can I.
So just like an infection
spreads amongst the community
and creates disease, if you
get a group of people together,
I believe that health
and wellness can
be as infectious as disease.
And all of a sudden, there's
a moment in our workshops.
I now know that when we get
a group of people together,
the first day is about
overcoming yourself.
And I can tell you after looking
at all those brain scans,
you and I are at
our absolute best
when we get beyond ourselves.
And the process of
getting beyond the self,
getting beyond and disentangling
from those programs and those
emotions-- it creates a lot
of disturbance, biologically
and energetically.
And so most people--
when they come up
in this process of change
and there's all this chaos,
they quit.
They say, I just can't do it.
It's too much.
But if they're with a group of
people, and I'm pushing them,
and they get numerous
opportunities to connect,
all that disorder,
all that chaos
is just unpredictable order.
There's going to come a
moment after that first day
where it's going to
start to organize.
And when it does, it's
like lights going on.
All of a sudden, everybody
starts in training.
Everybody starts resonating.
And all of a sudden now we
start creating the miraculous.
And we start seeing it
over and over again.
And all of a sudden, by the
end of the event, people
are doing really uncommon
or supernatural things.
And I believe that
that's our birthright.
I believe that's who
we are when we're not
caught up in our programs.
>>NOORY: Who is Anouk?
>>DISPENZA: Anouk is a woman
that I met about 10 years ago
whose husband went to the
tallest building in Rotterdam
and jumped off the top of the
building and committed suicide.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
And she never saw that coming?
>>DISPENZA: She
never saw it coming.
He just left on a Sunday
morning and had never said
goodbye to her, just said a
quick goodbye to the kids.
She was in the shower.
He was a successful attorney.
And he just took his life.
And the event threw her
into a very strong tailspin.
Now, that makes sense
because an event
like that is going to change
your internal state, right?
>>NOORY: Forever.
>>DISPENZA: Forever--
well, almost forever.
And then you're going to
remember the event where
the police officers show
up and deliver the news.
And the problem is that
the shock or the trauma
like that causes you to
continuously remember
the event.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
And it's painful.
>>DISPENZA: And so you start
producing the same chemistry
in your brain and body
as if the event was--
>>NOORY: Over and over.
Let's take a quick look at
a Anouk from "Supernatural."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I made a decision to
start meditating daily.
And I started the
work first on my own.
And then I started talking
with people about it.
And they were supporting me.
I would start meditating
in the evening around 9:30.
And then I would sit with it
till I really felt I'm whole.
I'm having more energy.
I'm joyful.
I'm a happy person.
I can do this.
It will work-- all these changes
that I had to tell myself.
If not the chemo, then why
not try to heal myself?
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Joe, that doesn't
look like a woman whose
husband jumped off a building.
>>DISPENZA: I'll tell you
what, that woman-- it took
her a couple years to change.
But after that whole event,
she wound up in the hospital,
was paralyzed in both legs
with a very serious neuropathy.
Then she developed these
esophageal and mucous
membranes, ulcerations
in her mouth,
her throat, her esophagus.
>>NOORY: She was falling apart.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Then she developed cancer.
And the doctors told her
that she had a certain amount
of time to live.
And she came to an event.
She's a psychotherapist, a
very brilliant psychotherapist.
And it all made sense to her.
And she said, I am just going
to practice this and overcome
myself a little
bit more every day.
Now, I want to be very clear
here that the road for her
wasn't a linear process.
I want you to know that there
were days where she didn't feel
like doing her
meditations because she
was so sick and so depressed.
But she did them anyway.
And she overcame.
>>NOORY: She did them
even during those days?
>>DISPENZA: During those days.
There were days where
she was filled with fear
because the doctors
told her she was stupid
and she was going to die.
>>NOORY: Is that normal
to feel that way?
>>DISPENZA: Of course.
But she overcame her fear by
continuously doing the work.
>>NOORY: Yeah, pushing herself.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
There were days that she
had a lot of self-doubt,
and she didn't believe
it was possible.
But she did the work anyway.
And there were days
that she was busy.
And she had three children.
She could have said, I
have to excuse myself.
I can't do the meditation.
But she found time every
day to do the work.
And every day, she overcame,
she overcame, she overcame
until she became somebody else.
Now, the disease no longer
exists in that personality.
>>NOORY: She looked happy.
>>DISPENZA: The disease existed
in the old personality that
was thinking a certain
way, acting a certain way,
and feeling a certain way.
And how you think, how
you act, and how you feel
is called your personality.
And your personality creates
your personal reality.
So it means that if you want to
change your personal reality--
your life-- that means you've
got to change your personality.
You got to start thinking about
what you've been thinking about
and change it.
You got to become conscious
of your unconscious habits
and behaviors and modify them.
And then you have to look
at certain emotions that
keep you anchored
to the past and ask
the most important question--
do these emotions
belong in my future?
And the problem with
those survival emotions
is they're like a narcotic.
They're like a drug.
They give the brain and
body a rush of energy.
And people, over time, become
addicted to the very rush
of those survival chemicals.
And they use the people
and problems in their life
and in their past to
reaffirm their addiction
to that emotion.
That means they
need the bad job.
They need the poor relationship.
They need the bad
memories because it
makes them feel something.
>>NOORY: Even though
it's not a good feeling.
>>DISPENZA: That
means they become
addicted to the life
they don't even like.
And this is why
change is so hard.
So then just like an
addict overcoming drug,
when people start
to change, they
have to go through
these periods where
they're in the withdrawal.
But the next question is,
what thoughts do you want
to fire and wire in your brain?
Close your eyes and begin
to review those thoughts.
What behaviors do you want
to change or demonstrate
in one day?
And the act of closing your eyes
and rehearsing your behaviors--
the latest research
in neuroscience
says that you begin
to change your brain
to look like that experience
has already happened.
In other words,
you're installing
the neurological
hardware in your brain.
And if you keep doing
it over and over again,
the hardware becomes
a software program.
What does that mean?
You start acting
like a happy person.
Why?
There's no magic there.
You installed the circuits.
You start thinking in
more unlimited ways
because you put those in place.
And now here's the tough part.
Can you teach your
body emotionally
what that future
is going to feel
like before it's made manifest?
That means you can't
wait for your healing
to feel gratitude and wholeness.
You can't wait for
your wealth to feel
abundance and worthiness.
You can't wait for the
mystical moment to feel awe.
That's the old model of
reality of cause and effect.
That's Newtonian physics.
But the new model of reality,
the quantum model of reality,
is about causing
an effect, which
means the moment you start
feeling gratitude and whole,
your healing begins.
The moment you start
feeling worthy and abundant,
you're generating wealth.
The moment you're
in awe of life,
you're going to have
a mystical experience.
So then your body is
your unconscious mind.
It does not know the difference
between an actual experience
in your life that creates
an emotion and an emotion
that you can create
by thought alone.
So the body is believing.
It's living in that future
reality in the present moment.
And what's the
significance of that?
As I said, the latest
research in genetics
says genes don't create disease.
It's the environment
that signals
the gene that creates change.
Well, if the end product of an
experience in the environment
is an emotion, the moment you
embrace an elevated emotion,
you're signaling the gene
ahead of the environment.
Now, what do genes do?
Genes make proteins.
And what are proteins
responsible for?
The structure or
function of your body.
And the expression of proteins
is the expression of life.
And if you keep knocking
on that genetic door
over and over
again, you are going
to begin to upregulate
the genes for health.
And you're going to downregulate
the genes for disease.
And all of a sudden, you're
going to wake up in your dream
and realize that you're
a different person.
And the personality now that had
the disease is no longer you.
It's like a person with
a multiple personality
disorder that has an allergy
to nylon stockings in one
personality and a normal--
>>NOORY: This normal again.
Are there some people, Joe,
who have an innate ability
to make people feel better
because of what they are,
their personality,
or who they are?
Because I've noticed that some
people, you flock around them.
Other people, you
run away from them.
What is that?
>>DISPENZA: Well,
that's a great point.
I think we'll have to step
out of the realm of biology
and into the realm of physics.
I mean, the body is always
emitting light and information.
Every cell in the body
emits energy and light.
So if a person is
negative and frustrated--
>>NOORY: And you
feel that from them.
>>DISPENZA: You can feel it.
So you have your waves
working with their waves,
and they cancel out.
And you feel that
destructive interference.
But if we're sharing the same
energy, and our energy unifies
and it creates bigger
waves, it's constructive.
And we feel connected.
And that's healthy.
And I think that many
people shut that off.
But I think that we're
innately sensitive to energy.
>>NOORY: Can a person who has
higher levels of this energy
affect somebody who has
a lower level and kind
of bring them up?
>>DISPENZA: Absolutely.
And listen-- we're doing these
week-long events, George.
And we were teaching people
how to heal other people.
Now, there was research
done at Yale University
back in the '40s by this
great scientist named
Harold Saxton Burr.
And what Burr was
interested in was
studying the electromagnetic
fields around things.
So he started with all
kinds of different eggs,
like salamander eggs, lizard
eggs, chicken eggs, bird eggs.
And what he noticed was
that every single time,
the most positive,
strongest charge
was always where the head was.
And the weakest charge was
always where the tail was.
And he noticed that there was
this invisible electromagnetic
field like a magnet
surrounding the organism.
So then he said, OK.
That's 100% percent of the time.
So then he started
studying rodents
that had a proclivity
for uterine cancer.
And what he noticed was
that every single rodent
had the same electromagnetic
signature that had the cancer
100% of the time.
But here's the cool part.
There were rodents that
didn't have the cancer
but had the signature
in the field.
And every single one
of them ultimately
developed the cancer.
That means that it's not
matter that emits a field.
It's the field that
creates matter.
Change the field,
change the matter.
So we take a group of people.
We call it the cage.
People come that have
health conditions.
They lay on the floor.
Now, our students have
been working all week long.
>>NOORY: This is at a workshop.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
They're connecting.
They spend the whole week.
They're getting better.
They're getting more refined.
They're creating more coherence.
It only requires them to
get beyond their body,
get beyond their environment,
and get beyond time.
And they connect to
that quantum field.
And we teach them how to lay a
coherent signature in the field
of the person laying there.
>>NOORY: Once they do?
>>DISPENZA: I have
seen tumors disappear.
I've seen people's bodies--
nothing but the back of
their head and their heels
touching the ground
coming off the floor.
>>NOORY: Are you in shock?
>>DISPENZA: I am very surprised.
And those people come up.
And they have a very significant
change in their health.
>>NOORY: What
makes it work, Joe?
What does it?
What is it about what you say--
and I have no doubts about that.
But what is it about
that that makes it work?
>>DISPENZA: I'm going to
answer it on two levels
because I want to be very clear.
There is an absolute physical,
scientific explanation to it.
There is energy
that is beginning
to create coherent patterns
that are literally disorganizing
anything incoherent and
reorganizing wholeness
in the body.
We see that.
But for the people,
the healers--
they have to get
energy into their heart
because that's the center where
the field begins to expand.
They can't be thinking about
how long they're doing it.
They can't be thinking
about, my back
hurts, am I doing this right.
They've got to get
beyond all of that.
They've got to connect to
that field of information.
Now, what makes
them get there is
the instruction, the
repetition, the experience,
and a certain level of trust
or belief that it's the truth.
So we have to step into
the unknown in order
for the unknown to happen.
And we've got to
be able to execute
with a certain amount of skill,
just like any skill you learn.
When it comes time
to do this, you
have to have certain
skill sets in place.
And at the same time,
you have to trust.
At the same time,
you can't control it.
You can't predict it.
You can't try to make
it happen because--
>>NOORY: But it's so powerful.
>>DISPENZA: It's unbelievable.
>>NOORY: Did Jesus
have this ability?
>>DISPENZA: Absolutely.
And what was he saying?
He said, hey, look.
If I could do this,
you could do it, too.
And I believe that
we're witnessing
miracles in our workshops that
are of biblical proportion.
They are really amazing,
powerful miracles.
>>NOORY: There is a part of the
brain called the "pineal gland"
that I think is important.
Let's hear more about it first.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Near the center of the brain,
we find a tiny pine cone-shaped
gland, which may be one
of the most wondrous parts
of our physical body.
We know that the
pineal gland produces
serotonin and melatonin
neurotransmitters, which
regulate waking and sleeping
cycles, as well as playing
a crucial role in mood.
But it may also be true
that the pineal produces
DMT, or Dimethyltryptamine,
a neurotransmitter which
creates a natural psychedelic
state of consciousness.
If so, then this little
gland plays not only
a crucial role in our
psychological well-being.
But it may hold the
key for unlocking
the true potential of humanity.
Any ancient esoteric
traditions and mystical schools
knew of the potential
of the pineal.
The ancient Greeks believed
it to be our connection
to the realms of thought.
Buddhists know it as a symbol
of spiritual awakening.
In Hinduism, the pineal
connects with the third eye
chakra, the seat of
intuition and clairvoyance.
Jesus proclaimed that the
eye is the lamp of the body.
So then if your eye is
clear, your whole body
will be full of light.
If Ren Descartes is right
and the pineal gland is indeed
the seat of the human soul, then
these predictions are correct
in believing that it serves
as the connecting link between
the physical and
spiritual worlds.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Joe, how
does the pineal gland
work in these mystical ways?
>>DISPENZA: Well, when
we wake up in the morning
and we begin to perceive
light, the wavelength of light
from the sun, wavelength
from these lights
here signals a
nucleus in the brain
called a "superchiasmatic
nucleus," which signals
the sympathetic nervous system,
signals the pineal gland.
And the pineal gland
begins to make serotonin.
And that's our waking
neurotransmitter.
When there's an inhibition
of light and it gets dark,
the lack of the wavelength of
light does the same pattern.
And all of a
sudden, serotonin is
turned into melatonin in
the pineal gland as well.
But the pineal gland has tiny,
little rhombohedron crystals.
And they're stacked
on top of each other.
And those crystals act
like a radio receiver.
And when the pineal gland
gets activated, what it does
is it begins to create
a resonant field,
an invisible field just
like a radio antenna,
that can tune in to
different frequencies
beyond the speed of light.
Now, Einstein said E
equals mc squared, which
means nothing in this
three-dimensional reality
can travel faster than
the speed of light.
Anything material that travels
faster than the speed of light
is going to turn into energy.
So the ceiling of this
three-dimensional reality
is the speed of light.
So when the pineal
gland gets activated
and it begins to resonate at
a frequency faster than light,
now all of a sudden
now, melatonin
is going to get an upgrade.
And there are derivatives
or metabolites, George,
of melatonin.
And those metabolites
produce some
of the most powerful
antioxidants known to man--
anti-cancer, anti-aging,
anti-heart disease,
anti-stroke,
anti-neurodegenerative,
anti-inflammatory,
anti-microbial.
And take the molecule,
tweak it again,
and you make a benzodiazepine.
What's that?
That's Valium.
It's going to sedate
the analytical mind.
those survival centers.
Now, melatonin
causes us to relax.
This is going to cause--
>>NOORY: It puts you to sleep.
>>DISPENZA: It's going to
cause us to really relax.
>>NOORY: Too much.
>>DISPENZA: No, not too much.
It's just going to
make us no longer be
preoccupied by fear or any
of those survival emotions.
You take that molecule,
you tweak it again, you
have the same chemical found
in hibernating animals--
no sex drive, no
appetite, no interest--
>>NOORY: It shuts them down.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
So then the body
goes into stasis.
You take that molecule,
you tweak it again--
same chemical found
in an electric ell.
That's what causes those
high amplitudes in the brain.
You take the molecule, you
tweak it one more time,
and you get dimethyltryptamine,
the most powerful
hallucinogenic known to man.
So now think about this.
There are realms that exist--
quantum physics will tell you
there's the many worlds theory.
There's infinite dimensions
that are stacked up
on top of each other.
And literally,
we're living right
in one of those, one slice
of infinite slices in bread.
So then the moment
you begin to tune
into a frequency faster
than the speed of light,
and the pineal
gland is resonating
with that frequency,
what's going
to connect the
physics of that energy
to the biology of our brain?
And it's the pineal gland.
So the pineal gland
takes the input--
and it's called a "transducer."
They actually call it in
medical texts a transducer.
What does a transducer do?
A transducer is a
television antenna.
It's going to take a frequency
and turn it into a picture.
So all of a sudden, once the
pineal gland becomes activated
and it's picking up that energy,
that stream of consciousness
is going to produce a
very profound vision.
That's why it's called
the "third eye."
And that vision is
going to be more real
than you and I sitting here.
It's going to be so real that
this three-dimensional reality
is going to disappear.
And you're going to be
transported to another place.
>>NOORY: How do we
activate the pineal gland?
>>DISPENZA: Well we have
a series of meditations
that we do.
>>NOORY: Geared
straight for that?
>>DISPENZA: Just
straight for that.
Now, the first thing we
do is melatonin levels
are at their height between
1:00 and 4:00 in the morning.
Guess when we start
our meditation?
>>NOORY: 1:00 and
4:00 in the morning.
>>DISPENZA: We're on the
floor at 4:00 in the morning.
>>NOORY: You got them up
at 4:00 in the morning,
probably after my
radio show, right?
>>DISPENZA: Right
after your radio show.
Now, why?
Not because I want
to torture them,
but because that's when the
raw material is at its height.
And brainwaves are just right.
You're kind of groggy.
And you're somewhere
between alpha and theta.
You don't really care
what you look like.
And you get enough
people in the room.
And then we go through a
series of steps to activate it.
Now, one of the
things that we do
is we do this very
particular breath.
And when we do this
breath, what we're doing
is we're working on pulling
energy from our lower centers
all the way up into our brain.
And it's a practice.
And when we do it, we bring
it all way to the top.
We bring it to the top.
And then we squeeze
our intrinsic muscles.
And we just hold our breath.
And when we do that,
we increase what's
called "intrathecal pressure."
Now, at the base of
the third ventricle
sits the pineal gland.
>>NOORY: And how big is it, Joe?
>>DISPENZA: It's
the size of a grain
of rice, a little bigger
than a grain of rice.
>>NOORY: It's that small?
>>DISPENZA: It's
that small, yeah.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>DISPENZA: Now, when we inhale
and we squeeze like that,
there's fluid inside this
closed system between our brain
and our spinal column.
Inside the skull and
the spinal column
sits the brain and the
central nervous system.
And it's bathed in this fluid
called "cerebrospinal fluid."
Now, cerebrospinal
fluid acts as a way
to cushion the brain
if there's trauma.
It creates buoyancy.
It helps to transport nutrients.
>>NOORY: It's like
a shock absorber.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
And it's a conduit for
electrical charges.
So when we start
breathing, we start
to accelerate the
cerebral spinal fluid.
It's what we're doing.
When we hold our
breath and we squeeze,
we increase
intrathecal pressure.
We start to put a
mechanical stress up
against those crystals
in the pineal gland.
Now, there's research--
and I have the articles--
that says the pineal gland
has piezoelectric properties.
Now, what the hell
does that mean?
Piezoelectric-- take
a mechanical stress
and turn it into an
electrical charge.
So by applying that stress
against the pineal gland,
you begin to tap
against those crystals.
And it begins to produce
an electrical field.
And that field begins to
stretch out as far as it can.
When the crystals can't stretch
any more, the field reverses.
And when the field reverses, it
compresses the crystal again.
And when the crystals
are compressed,
it creates another field.
And now you've got a
little antenna going there.
So as you keep
practicing this, you
keep causing that little gland
to become like a radio antenna.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>DISPENZA: And all of a sudden,
the person goes super lucid.
They have a
transcendental moment.
And that transcendental moment
typically changes them forever.
>>NOORY: How could a little
gland be so powerful?
>>DISPENZA: Thank
god it's little.
80% of the people
in the Western world
have calcified pineal glands
because of fluoride, in fact.
The negative charge
of the fluoride ion
binds with the positive
calcium crystals.
And so it tends to
create this toothpaste
kind of calcification
in the pineal gland.
>>NOORY: Joe, what
are you seen worldwide
with people these
days with everything
they're being bombarded with?
I mean, it's a very strange
time period right now.
>>DISPENZA: It is
really strange.
>>NOORY: Are you seeing
that with people?
They're frustrated.
They're angry.
>>DISPENZA: They're irritated.
They're more frustrated.
They're more impatient.
They have less attention spans.
Yeah, they're out of balance.
>>NOORY: So you help them
calm down a little bit.
>>DISPENZA: Well, the process
of them setting their cellphone
down, shutting off
their computer,
disconnecting from
their Facebook
is part of the retreat.
Because all of
those things remind
them of who they are
as a personality.
>>NOORY: So at the workshop,
that stuff is gone.
>>DISPENZA: Gone.
And we do walking meditation,
standing meditations,
laying down meditations,
sitting there.
Why?
Because I want people
to keep practicing it
in every single way they can.
So when they leave the
event, they've become it.
And so it's not about
people's wealth.
It's not about their health.
It's not about their new
relationship or their new job.
It's who they become because
no one can take that away
from you.
>>NOORY: Well, you've been
doing this for a long time.
Did you ever think
when you started it
that you would be
healing people this way?
>>DISPENZA: No.
No.
I actually didn't.
And I keep telling
my staff I feel
like I'm waking up in my dream.
I'm so blessed and so--
>>NOORY: And it happened to
you, and you changed your life.
>>DISPENZA: I wouldn't
be sitting here
if I never had that experience.
>>NOORY: What do you say to
somebody who is angry, unhappy,
their life is miserable?
And there are many
out there with that.
What do you tell them?
>>DISPENZA: I tell them you
got to start at some point.
All those emotions, all
those limited emotions--
they're not hurting
anybody else but you.
And it's a scientific fact.
The long-term effects of
those stress chemicals
push the genetic buttons
that create disease.
And so sooner or later,
you've got to give that up.
Sooner or later, you have to
decide that there's another way
to live.
And people are doing it.
And if anybody else can
do it, you can do it.
>>NOORY: And you
have no doubts at all
at this point that this works?
>>DISPENZA: You know, I
think I do have doubts.
And I think I have
healthy doubts.
I don't know that we can
live forever, although we
have the gene for immortality.
I don't know.
I think it's healthy, George,
to take a methodical approach.
In other words,
you heal yourself.
And then you ask, can
I heal somebody else?
Then you witness
somebody else be healed.
Then the next question
is, can I heal somebody
on the other side of the planet?
Well, consciousness
is non-local.
What piece of knowledge
or information
can I integrate into
my next experience?
So I think it's an evolution.
It's unrealistic to say you're
going to be an astronaut
or go to the moon without
the training, right?
So I'm very careful
about a very methodical--
>>NOORY: You have to be ready.
>>DISPENZA: And
step by step, right?
You've got to go
methodically step by step.
So I've been super patient in
this process in getting people
to certain levels
without going too fast.
Because the moment you
do that, it's going
to shut certain people down.
Or it's going to
discourage them.
So I do my best to move a
community of people all at once
without leaving anybody behind.
>>NOORY: Well, you do a
good job at doing that.
You know, I wanted to be
a national broadcaster
all my life since
I was 19 years old.
It never would have happened if
I didn't prepare myself for it.
I had a goal.
I had a direction.
That was all fine.
But you really have to be ready
for it when the time comes,
don't you?
>>DISPENZA: Absolutely.
And life is the stage.
And taking a little time every
day and closing your eyes
and disconnecting
from your environment,
sitting your body down and
making it be in one place
without eating or smelling or
tasting or feeling or seeing,
and not being on
a schedule to rush
to any events in your future
or think about your past--
that is the meditative process.
And just like an actor
rehearsing her role
or his role, who do you want
to be when you open your eyes?
And just get into that
state and then maintain
that modified state of mind
and body your entire day.
And if you can,
you're going to see
those synchronicities
and those serendipity
and those opportunities
and those coincidences
happening around you.
And now you don't have
to go anywhere to get it.
It's kind of coming to you.
And I think that's the thing.
>>NOORY: It's right there.
And before you heal the body,
you heal the mind, don't you?
>>DISPENZA: You cannot have
a healing without a spiritual
healing.
It just isn't possible.
>>NOORY: Joe, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>DISPENZA: You're welcome.
>>NOORY: You're
one-of-a-kind, my friend.
>>DISPENZA: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How many people have
you helped in your career?
>>DISPENZA: Oh my goodness.
I have no idea.
I actually have no idea.
>>NOORY: Whether it's
one or a million,
that's all that matters.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Listen, I sleep well
at night because I now
know that we're helping people.
And that's what matters to me.
>>NOORY: That's what matters
all the time-- helping people.
And that's what he does.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."